# SVM-Algorithm

# ABSTRACT

Diabetes mellitus is one of the most serious health challenges in both developing and developed countries. According to the International Diabetes Federation, there are 285 million diabetic people worldwide. This total is expected to rise to 380 million within 20 years. Due to its importance, a design of classifier for the detection of Diabetes disease with optimal cost and better performance is the need of the age. The Pima Indian diabetic database at the UCI machine learning laboratory has become a standard for testing data mining algorithms to see their prediction accuracy in diabetes data classification. The machine learning method focus on classifying diabetes disease from high dimensional medical dataset.

Diabetes is one of the common and rapidly increasing diseases in the world. It is a major health problem in most of the countries. Diabetes is a condition in which your body is unable to produce the required amount of insulin needed to regulate the amount of sugar in the body. This leads to various diseases including heart disease, kidney disease, blindness, nerve damage and blood vessels damage. Insulin is the principle hormone that regulates uptake of glucose from the
blood into most cells (muscle and fat cells). If the amount of insulin available is insufficient, then glucose will not have its usual effect so that glucose will not be absorbed by the body cells that require it.

Diabetes mellitus being one of the major contributors to the mortality rate. Detection and diagnosis of diabetes at an early stage is the need of the day. Diabetes disease diagnosis and interpretation of the diabetes data is an important classification problem. A classifier is required and to be designed that is cost efficient, convenient and accurate. Artificial intelligence and Soft Computing Techniques provide a great deal of human ideologies and are involved in human related fields of application. These systems find a place in the medical diagnosis.
